{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset128 HiraginoSans-W3;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red34\green34\blue34;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c0\c0;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20400\viewh10980\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-3600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf0 (Things to do)
\b0 \
\
1/. Create application flow\
\
	Sign In / Register View Controller \'a0\
		(After sign in check for invites and existing games)\
		\
	New game / resume View Controller\
	Invite View Controller\
	New Games\'a0\
	\
2/. Add Firebase\
	Learn about firestore\'a0 decide between firestore and database\
\
3/. Design Logo ( Probably the 3 of Hearts )\
\

\b Firebase Structure for App
\b0 \
\
Users, Invites, Games\
\
USERS : ID, Name, eMail, [Friends], [Games] \'a0 *** User ID created when user is created ***\
\
INVITES : ID, From, To, Game\
\
GAMES : ID,\'a0\
[Users],\'a0\
[Invites],\'a0\
Stockpile, (multiple arrays of decks of 53 cards)\
Timer,\'a0\
Active Player ID,\'a0\
[Players Hands] \'a0\
Discard Pile Int,\'a0 \'a0\
Stockpile Int\
\
\

\b New Structure for game
\b0 \
\
cards are represented by number 0 to 53\'a0\
\
card mod 53\
Joker = 52 else\
suit = card\'a0 / 13\
rank = card\'a0 mod 13\
\
stockpile is cards from multiple decks\
\
stockPile shuffled and cut prior to game start\
\
to deal each player assigned an array of "pointers" to deck\
\
for a 3 person game hand 2 is 4 cards\
player 1 array = [0 3,6,9]\
player 2 array = [1,4,7,10]\
player 3 array = [2,5,8,11]\
\
discard pointer = 12\
at this point stockpile pointer = 13\
\
Player 1 sorts hand to achieve lowest points, if points are 0, player 1 notifies other players he is out he then displays his hand to others selects card from stockpile and then selects a card to place on discard pile. all remaining players have one turn to improve their hand.\
If player 1 has points he can select either the top card from the discards or take a chance on the next card from the stockpile and stockpile pointer is incremented by 1. player then must discard a card to the discard pile\'a0\
game continues until a player has 0 points\'a0\
when final player has had their turn points from this hand are aded to players running total\
after each hand an additional card is dealt to each player until the last hand (Kings) are completed then the winner(s) are declared and \'a0\
\
\

\b App Flow
\b0 \
Game starts with opening the SignInVC user is asked to sign in or register using their eMail\
\
When Authorized user is presented PlayerGameVC upon opening, Firebase is checked to see if user has any Invites to other games an AlertController will be presented to get users response.\
PlayerGameVC will let user start a new game (Active upon upgrade)\'a0 or choose from a table of ongoing games\
If player chooses new game they will select a group of players they would like to Invite, Edit the text that will be sent with invites. Choose whether to add a time limit , set game start time, whether to allow players to start between hands (they will get same points as highest existing player) Invites are then sent out, decide if players points to be shown to all.\'a0\
If player(s) have existing accounts they will get an alert else an email with a link to the program will be sent. New players can play for free to any games they are invited to but will need to Pay to start a new game\
New game table will be added to their existing games\
\
When player selects from game table if game has not started:\
ShuffleVC is presented\
Shuffle view controller will show a list of invited players and whether they\'a0 accepted invite and are present (Color Coded) if player is game originator they can send updates to Invitees not present. A countdown clock (Made of cards) will animate while waiting. Originator will have a button to start game at any time. When game start an order of play will be chosen by shuffling a single deck dealing a card to each player player with lowest rank card goes 1st ties to be sorted (Hearts, Clubs, Diamonds, Spades)\
\
Deck(s) will be shuffled (just eye candy animation on each players screen) real shuffle will be done on originators screen and new game data sent to firebase . Player before dealer will cut by selecting a card from fanned out deck\
\
Game starts withe each player getting 3 cards next hand increases cards by 1 until 12 cards are dealt to each player.\'a0 Wild card are same a number of cards with Jack being the 9th hand King the 11th hand)\
Players screen will switch to PlayersHandVC\
\
Cards will animate from bottom center of screen (StockPile face down) to hand face up.\'a0\
PlayersHandVC will show current username, a table of players and their points for both current hand and running total. List will be reordered by whose turn it is. A timer will show how long they have to play their hand. Player whose turn it is can add additional time by pressing "A Bit More Time Button"\
If time runs out and player has not selected their extra card a card will be selected from the stockpile and placed directly on the discard pile. If a player has selected the extra card and time runs out the card on the right will be placed on the discard pile\
\
Players can select a card from either the top of the discard pile of the stockpile ( animate card to hand)\
Player arranges cards to lowest points then taps the discard pile last card on right of hand will be removed from hand and placed on discard pile. (Animate card from hand to discards)\
If player has "0" points remaining they will be declared winner. All remaining players are allowed a turn to reduce their score.\
\
After each hand players are returned to shuffle screen where deck is shuffled and cut. New players can be added at this time and are given same score as highest active player\
If a player should leave indicated by missing a turn an IM BACK button will show allowing them to resume if they do not push the button prior to their turn the game will simply move a card from stockpile to discards for them.\
\
\

\b Rules of Game\'a0
\b0 \
The Game of Threes uses a standard Poker card deck(s) plus a single Joker per deck\
\
The game consists of 11 rounds, in round one 3 cards are dealt to each player and the 3 is wild\
in each consecutive round an additional card is dealt to each player and the wild card is the same as the number of cards per hand\
\
Round 1, 3 is wild\
Round 2, 4 is wild ...\
Round\'a0 8 10 is wild\
Round\'a0 9, Jack is wild\'85\
Round 11 King is wild\'a0\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-3600\partightenfactor0
\cf2 The objective in threes is to score lowest points .\
Points in players hand are awarded as follows:\
Joker or wild card = 50, Ace = 20, 2 through 10 are = to their rank. Jack, Queen, & King are 10 points each\
\
Points are eliminated by forming sets of 3 or more cards sharing the same rank, e.g. \cf3 8
\f1 \uc0\u9829 
\f0 \cf2 \'a0\cf3 8
\f1 \uc0\u9830 
\f0 \cf2 \'a08
\f1 \uc0\u9824 
\f0  also known as a book; and runs of 3 or more cards in sequence, of the same suit. \cf3 3
\f1 \uc0\u9829 
\f0 \cf2 \'a0\cf3 4
\f1 \uc0\u9829 
\f0 \cf2 \'a0\cf3 5
\f1 \uc0\u9829 
\f0 \cf2  or more. Aces are can be low or high but not both in the same set (A
\f1 \uc0\u9824 
\f0 \'a02
\f1 \uc0\u9824 
\f0 \'a03
\f1 \uc0\u9824 
\f0  is a legal\'a0 as is\'a0 Q
\f1 \uc0\u9824 
\f0 \'a0K
\f1 \uc0\u9824 
\f0 \'a0A
\f1 \uc0\u9824 
\f0 \'a0 however K
\f1 \uc0\u9824 
\f0  A
\f1 \uc0\u9824 
\f0  2
\f1 \uc0\u9824 
\f0  is not). A player can form any combination of sets within their hand, whether it contains all books, all runs, or a mix of both. \'a0\
At the completion of the round any cards not in a set are counted and added to players score.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-3600\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
After shuffling deck the player to the right of dealer cuts the deck ( Takes a stack of cards from Deck and places them face down these cards start the stock pile or "bank".\
Dealer then deals clockwise starting from the dealers left and ending with his own hand. When each player has received the amount of cards equal to the round an additional card is dealt from the deck face up to start the \'93Discard\'94 Pile. Any remaining cards in the dealers hand are placed face down on the \'93bank\'94\
\
With each player taking turns starting from the dealers left the active player can choose a card from either the top card from the discard pile (face up) or the top card from the bank. Player then will rearrange the cards in his hand into sets and select a card to discard.\
if the player still has points in hand they will place the discard card face up on the top of the discard pile, the player to their left now has his turn.\'a0\
If the player has eliminated all points they then inform remainder of players that they are out. They then will display the sets to the other players and place discard on the discard pile. The remaining players will in turn have one additional turn to reduce points. At completion of turn player will display sets and sum the points of all cards not in sets\
\
The deal will now move to the left by one position, the number of cards dealt shall increase by 1 and the next hand will be dealt. Game ends after the 11th hand (Kings). The winner will be declared as the player with the least points. Additional games will be played with the winner becoming the dealer starting over with 3 cards.\
\
Two decks are sufficient for up to 6 players an additional deck for each additional 3 players is required.\
\
If the last card is removed from the bank the discards will be shuffled, cut by the player to right of active player and placed face down to form the bank.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-3600\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-3600\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
}